Code Book

Description:This code book describes which data used in this project explained different steps to create the tidy data set.

Overview

The data has been collected for 6 different activities for 30 volunteers while wearing a smartphone. 

The smartphone captured various data about their movements.

The files in the dataset are:

• subject_train.txt : A vector of 7352 integers, denoting the ID of the volunteer related to each of the observations in X_train.txt

• X_train.txt : the observations are noted for 21 out of the 30 volunteers:7352 observations of the 561 features.

• y_train.txt : A vector of 7352 integers, denoting the ID of the activity related to each of the observations in X_train.txt 

• subject_test.txt : A vector of 2947 integers, denoting the ID of the volunteer related to each of the observations in  X_test.txt 

• X_test.txt : 2947 observations of the 561 features, for 9 of the 30 volunteers.

• y_test.txt : A vector of 2947 integers, denoting the ID of the activity related to each of the observations in  X_test.txt 

• features.txt : Names of the 561 features.

• activity_labels.txt : Names and IDs for each of the 6 activities.More information about the files is available in  README.txt . 

More information about the features is available in  features_info.txt

Files not used: This analysis was performed using only the files above, and did not use the raw signal data. 

Therefore, the data files in the "Inertial Signals" folders were ignored.
Processing:
steps
1. Read all the data files in data frame, additional column headers were added and the training and test sets were combined into a single data set.
2. Some columns needed to be removed that did not contain the exact string "mean()" or "std()". 
This left 66 feature columns, plus the subjectID and activity columns.
3. The activity column was converted from an integer to a factor using labels describing the activities.
4. The final tidy data set contains the mean of each feature for each subject and each activity.    
Thus, subject #1 has 6 rows in the tidy data set (one row for each activity) and each row contains the mean value for each of the 66 features    
for that subject/activity combination. Since there are 30 subjects, there are a total of 180 rows.
5. The tidy data is available as output txt file.
